qna.md, before:

# Q&A

## How does this project differ from MITRE Atlas?

MITRE Atlas is a knowledge resource about attacks that target the _creators_ of AI systems.
It covers training data, the training environment, model artifacts and more, all crucial components when building an AI system.
By contrast, the GenAI Attacks matrix is focused on attacks that target the _users_ of an GenAI system. The focus is on how AI systems interact with the rest of the business environment on behalf of their uses. Furthermore, Atlas has a wider scope covering ML while this project is focused on GenAI.

## How does this project differ from OWASP LLM Top 10?

The OWASP LLM Top 10 is a knowledge resource about common vulnerabilities for applications using GenAI.
It helps _creators_ build GenAI applications in a safer way, applying best practice.
By contract, the GenAI Attacks matrix is focused on the _usage_ on GenAI systems and protecting their _users_.
This projects takes the perspective of an organization that uses a GenAI system and would like to defend its users, whether they built the system themselves or not.

## What is the scope of this project?

Any system that uses GenAI allowing it some level of decision making, and interfaces with or operated on behalf of users.
This includes AI systems you can license like ChatGPT, GitHub Copilot or Microsoft Copilot, extensions you could build with no-code tools and custom applications built for your specific use case.

Commit message:

How does this project differ from MITRE ATT&CK?

qna.md, after:

# Q&A

## How does this project differ from MITRE Atlas?

MITRE Atlas is a knowledge resource about attacks that target the _creators_ of AI systems.
It covers training data, the training environment, model artifacts and more, all crucial components when building an AI system.
By contrast, the GenAI Attacks matrix is focused on attacks that target the _users_ of an GenAI system. The focus is on how AI systems interact with the rest of the business environment on behalf of their uses. Furthermore, Atlas has a wider scope covering ML while this project is focused on GenAI.

## How does this project differ from MITRE ATT&CK?

MITRE ATT&CK is an incredible resource, and one that we have personally used over and over again.
We wanted to take a focused approach on GenAI systems, diverging from MITRE's endpoint-focused approach.
Furthermore, we document both observed attacks and security researcher demonstrated by the community.
We believe that with the fast pace of innovation with GenAI, its important we share information about potential attacks as soon as they are discovered to guide mitigation.

## How does this project differ from OWASP LLM Top 10?

The OWASP LLM Top 10 is a knowledge resource about common vulnerabilities for applications using GenAI.
It helps _creators_ build GenAI applications in a safer way, applying best practice.
By contract, the GenAI Attacks matrix is focused on the _usage_ on GenAI systems and protecting their _users_.
This projects takes the perspective of an organization that uses a GenAI system and would like to defend its users, whether they built the system themselves or not.

## What is the scope of this project?

Any system that uses GenAI allowing it some level of decision making, and interfaces with or operated on behalf of users.
This includes AI systems you can license like ChatGPT, GitHub Copilot or Microsoft Copilot, extensions you could build with no-code tools and custom applications built for your specific use case.
